We are in the golden age of Christian
apologetics, my friends. One of the most
amazing and unexpected features of 2025
has been the number of shows, some of
the biggest shows in the world that are
inviting a Christian apologist to lay
out a case for Jesus and the Bible. Wes
Huff has been on the Joe Rogan
Experience, the PBD podcast, Pierce
Morgan Uncensored, and now Flagrant. So
Wes joined comedian Andrew Schultz and
friends on Flagrant. And it was
interesting because the four regulars on
the show, not sure what they call
themselves, the flagrant four, maybe
they're smart and they were making some
good points during the discussion. In
fact, in this video, I want to talk
about something that Andrew Schultz, a
comedian, said about the reliability of
the Bible because it's almost always
overlooked. And yet it's something
Christians and atheists and Muslims need
to understand. For context, one of the
flagrant four, Mark, brought up Bible
discrepancies. You read one book of the
Bible about some topic and it says one
thing. You read another book of the
Bible about the same topic and it sounds
like it's saying something different.
What is a Christian to do in this
situation? I I have a quick question on
the like some of the discrepancies that
occur in the Bible. That's something
that I struggle with sometimes. Sure. I
as a Catholic, you know, we have a
little a little broader uh you know,
papal authority, but I'm curious like
how should Christians deal with
discrepancies in the Bible, whether it's
like the birth story or like the death
of Judas or things like that.
Discrepancies in the Bible. He gave two
examples, the birth of Jesus and the
death of Judas. So, you read the story
about the birth of Jesus in Matthew and
the story about the birth of Jesus in
Luke, and they're pretty different
stories. Then there's the death of
Judas. Here we get different stories in
Matthew and Acts. How should we deal
with these
discrepancies? Wes spends a few minutes
breaking down how different authors are
writing for different purposes and
making different points for different
audiences. Then he returns to the death
of Judas. A differentiation in detail
doesn't necessarily amount to a
contradiction. So I haven't found
something that I think is an outright
contradiction there. That's not to say
there aren't hard ones. So the death of
Judas is a hard one because one gospel
says that he uh he went and hung himself
in the potter's field. The other says
that he falls headlong and his endrails
fall out. According to Matthew 27, Judas
feels guilty about betraying Jesus and
he hangs himself. According to Acts 1,
Judas falls over and his intestines
spill out. Very different accounts. What
should Christians do here? I think it's
entirely possible to harmonize that and
say he hung himself and he rope snapped
and it fell and he he like it's not. You
can see how you could get these kind of
things, even if some people think you're
playing loose and fast with that kind of
thing. Okay? So, you can harmonize the
accounts by combining them. Judas hangs
himself maybe on the edge of a cliff and
the rope snaps and he falls headlong and
hits some rocks and his intestines spill
out. But there are other ways to
harmonize these passages. Then we also
have the fact that in Hebraic
Seemetic idea your endrails like your
your intestines are where your
credibility comes from. Ah got it. In
first century thought your credibility
comes from your intestines. It's similar
to how we associate love with the heart.
Sometimes we say so and so died of a
broken heart. Imagine people in a
culture 2,000 years from now, a culture
that doesn't associate the heart with
emotions, reading about someone in our
time dying of a broken heart, they might
try to interpret that as a heart attack
or something, even though they would be
completely wrong. They might not
understand our figures of speech. So,
what's up with someone's intestines
spilling out? So, there's there could be
a play on words in that he could have
physically like his got cut open and his
his intestines fell out. But there also
could have been this idea for the Jewish
mindset of like this is the guy that
betrayed Jesus. Of course, his antel
fall out because that's where your like
credibility is. Wes points out two
different ways of harmonizing the
accounts. You can say that they both
happened one after the other or you can
say that one of the writers is using
figurative language to make a point.
Other Christians have proposed
additional ways of harmonizing the
passages. But at the end of the day, all
of these harmonizations are just
theories. We don't know exactly what
happened. All we know is that we have
two different accounts. But here's the
issue I wanted to get to, and this is
something that Andrew Schultz brings up.
Why do we have a discrepancy here at
all? Why are there two stories that
Christians have been trying to harmonize
for
centuries? Why didn't the stories line
up perfectly from the beginning? Now, is
there could you argue that there is
credibility in the authenticity of the
gospel of the gospels because the
gospels those are my favorite because me
too. It's a serial because because there
are differing accounts. Did you catch
that? Could the gospels or gospels be
more reliable because there are
differing accounts? Like if every
account was identical, you don't need
four accounts. The fact that they differ
slightly and they don't make the changes
to make them match up offers more
authenticity to me. The accounts differ
and Christians in the first century, the
second century, the third century, and
so on don't change them to make them
line up perfectly.
They leave the stories as they are and
they try to reconcile them in various
ways, but they don't change them to make
them match cuz cuz the criticism from
the outside is, hey, they're just
changing these things to make it look
the best so that they can exert power
and influence over the people that they
rule. That's the outside perspective
from like an atheist perhaps. But I'm
like, okay, well that's not a really
good one if you're putting quote unquote
mistakes or differences. You're like,
unless they thought it was important to
maintain the authenticity of these
stories, so they left them in there
despite the differences. Why didn't the
Christians just change the stories to
make them line up
perfectly? Was it because they had so
much respect for the texts and so much
dedication to preserving the stories
accurately that they wouldn't have
dreamed of changing them to make them
line up perfectly?
And if that's the case, don't the
differences in a strange way support
their
reliability? Wes ultimately agrees that
there would be a problem if the Gospels
didn't contain these kinds of
differences. Well, if they all said the
same thing, you could accuse them of
collaborating and collusion. That Yeah,
maybe that was a really quick way of
saying what I've battled about. That's
why good. Actually, Andrew and Wes were
making different but related points, and
both points are important. This brings
us to another D. Wood jail story. I
haven't shared this story much, but when
I was first reading the Gospels in jail
as an atheist, I had the same reaction
that Andrew just had. I saw a
discrepancy and it made me think the
Gospels were more reliable, not less
reliable. I'll tell you exactly what
happened right after a brief word about
this video's
sponsor. Suppose you're in jail and
you're reading the Bible to refute all
the Christians you're enraged at for
some reason. As you're reading, you
realize that the Bible is far more
compelling than you had once thought.
You read the parable of the rich man and
Lazarus in Luke 16, and it makes you
want to share what you've learned with
your
family. What do you do? Easy. Write them
a letter and sign them up for an arts
box. What's an arts box? I'm glad you
asked. Artza is a company in Israel that
comes up with a new theme every few
months. They gather products around that
theme from small Jewish and Christian
businesses and charities in places like
Jerusalem and Nazareth and Bethlehem.
And they ship everything in a box. If
you sign your family up, they'll get
spices, snacks, crafts, decorations,
soaps, jewelry, dishes, all kinds of
things straight from the land of the
Bible and produced by local artisans who
share their products with the world
through arts. But David, if I'm in jail,
how can I sign my family up for an Artza
box? My goodness, have you seen jails
nowadays? My relatives in jail send me
emails. So figure it out like you
figured out how to get locked up. But
David, how can I afford an Artza box in
jail? Dude, they're not that expensive.
Are you always this slow? No wonder you
got caught. Of course, you can order an
Artza box for your family even if you're
not in jail. You can even order one for
yourself. Trust me, you won't regret it.
So whether you're at home or sitting in
jail wallowing in freakish misery, sign
up to start receiving arts of boxes. The
link is in the description. Be sure to
use the promo code dizzle to get a
discount and to let them know who sent
you. Speaking of jail, the year was
1995. If you watched my testimony video,
you heard about a Christian named Randy.
This was several months before I met
Randy. It was one of the times I was in
isolation. The only things I had in the
cell with me this time were a mattress,
a pillow, a blanket, a toothbrush, and a
pocket New Testament that a guard handed
to me. At first, I used that pocket New
Testament to cover my eyes when I was
trying to sleep because they kept the
light on in my cell.
Eventually, I got so bored that I read
the Gospel of Matthew. Then I started
reading the Gospel of Mark and I got to
the story of Legion in Mark 5. Said that
Jesus got out of the boat and met a man
with an unclean spirit. The guy was
demonpossessed. And I thought, wait a
minute, weren't there two of these guys?
because I had just read the Gospel of
Matthew, which had the same story in
chapter 8, except in Matthew, it said
that there were two demon-possessed
men. Now, these kinds of discrepancies
are pretty easy to harmonize. One writer
can just be simplifying the story, or if
something happens with two people, but
one of them is more prominent, like the
other guy's there, but he's not doing
much. It's easy to see how two writers
could tell the same story differently.
Think about watching the flagrant
podcast. You and I could both watch the
flagrant podcast and describe it
differently. Someone asks me, "What were
you watching?" I say, "I was watching
Wes Huff." The same person asks you what
you were doing. You say, "I was watching
Andrew Schultz."
That might sound like we were watching
two different shows, but we were
watching the same show. We were simply
describing it differently depending on
what stood out to us most or what we
wanted to
emphasize. So, not difficult to
harmonize something like this. But I
wondered back in 1995, 30 years
ago, why was there a difference to begin
with? And why didn't Christians just
change one of the stories so that they
matched? Obviously, these differences
don't help show that something is
inspired, and they don't prove that the
authors were telling the truth. But the
differences do cast doubt on two
alternative hypotheses which were
mentioned by Wes and Andrew. Wes
mentioned collusion. Well, if they all
said the same thing, you could accuse
them of collaborating and collusion.
Collaboration and collusion. That's what
I believed about the Gospels before I
read them. When I was a kid, I thought I
figured out how Christianity arose. It
was simple. Jesus had followers. Then
Jesus died. His followers wanted to keep
the movement going. So they made up some
miracle stories and a story about his
resurrection and cranked out some books
to spread their new
religion. Makes perfect sense. As long
as you know absolutely nothing. If you
just read the gospels, this theory
doesn't make sense because of the
differences.
You can explain the origin of the
gospels in a different way, but the idea
that some guys got together and
conspired to make up what we read in the
Gospels doesn't make sense. There's some
degree of independence, which means
you're dealing with some independent
sources. And if you're dealing with some
independent sources, you have to figure
out why these independent sources agree
on so many things. So collusion was my
original theory. Collusion fell apart.
That made the gospels more interesting
because there were independent sources
of information. Not a single source like
a group of people conspiring to start a
new religion. The other benefit of the
differences was brought up by Andrew.
The fact that they differ slightly and
they don't make the changes to make them
match up offers more authenticity to me.
This is more relevant as a response to a
common Muslim view. Lots of Muslims
believe that the Gospels were corrupted
over the centuries because Christians
felt free to make
changes. These same Muslims will point
to differences as evidence of
corruption.
But if Christians felt free to make
changes, and we know that Christians
have always been aware of the
differences because they came up with
explanations for
them. Why didn't Christians simply
change the stories so that there were no
differences? The reason we still have
the differences is that Christians
didn't feel free to make changes. They
wanted to preserve the texts as they
were. And even if you get a Christian
somewhere who decides to change
something, there are copies of the
Gospels all over the place, making a
change in Cairo doesn't magically change
the copies in Damascus or Athens or
Rome. So making the change wouldn't
work. To be clear, recognizing this
didn't make me believe in the Gospels
back in 1995. Simply forced me to
rethink my theory about the origin of
Christianity. I still believed that
people lied in order to invent a new
religion. I just thought there had to be
multiple liars who weren't always
working together, which is why they put
out different versions of
stories. Eventually, upon further
investigation, the liar theory also fell
apart. If you'd like to know why the
liar hypothesis doesn't work, if you're
trying to explain the origin of
Christianity, be sure to watch my
testimony video and my interview with
Shawn McDow.
[Music]